Interest income on acquired loan portfolios decreased during the quarter to SEK 778m (865), driven mainly by the low volume of portfolio acquisitions during the year. Other interest income totalled SEK 0m (–3). Interest expense for the quarter totalled SEK –138m (–149). The decrease is mainly attributable to lower interest expense for external financing in the bond market and deposits from the public.

Impairment gains and losses totalled SEK –49m (22) during the quarter and include realised collections against active forecast during the period, as well as forward-looking portfolio revaluations. Price adjustments were made to several portfolios during the fourth quarter due to guarantee commitments by selling banks in the UK, Greece and France. These guarantee commitments had an impact on impairment gains and losses of SEK 175m. Adjusted for the price adjustments, portfolio revaluations totalled SEK –123m, of which SEK –76m pertains to secured portfolios. With respect to the secured portfolios, the revaluations are mainly attributable to a French portfolio for which collections were made ahead of active forecast. This contributed to the strong collection performance during the quarter, while also reducing expected future cash flow. A number of unsecured portfolios were also revalued during the quarter due to Covid-19 and its impact on collections. The revaluations of unsecured portfolios reflect a gradual recovery in collections during 2021. Collections exceeding active forecast, adjusted for price adjustments, during the quarter totalled SEK 74m, of which SEK 44m pertains to unsecured portfolios. The quarter’s realised collections correspond to 105 per cent of active forecast. For unsecured portfolios, the quarter’s realised collections correspond to 103 per cent of active forecast.

Fee and commission income decreased to SEK 18m (30). The decrease is attributable to the closure of third-party collection services in the UK. Net result from financial transactions totalled SEK 39m (1) and is primarily attributable to positive currency effects and to unrealised value increases in interest rate hedging positions. The bond repurchase conducted in November produced a negative impact on earnings totalling SEK –18m, including repurchase premium. The transaction was carried out to extend the maturity of Hoist Finance senior debts which gives a good position for growth in 2021. Other operating income totalled SEK 0m (5).